What's new in PoWA 3.0.0
=========================

**December 7, 2015**

Better predicate analyzer
-------------------------

The [pg\_qualstats](https://github.com/dalibo/pg_qualstats) extension stores
new counters. It's now possible to know the most executed predicates in
relation to all the related queries. It also tracks non-normalized queries so
that it’s possible to execute an EXPLAIN of any query tracked by pg\_stat\_statements.


Database global optimization
----------------------------

PoWA is now able to use statistics about every predicate used by any query
executed on a database to suggest the smallest index set that optimizes every
one of those predicates.

In particular, the heuristics place heavy emphasis in consolidating many
indexes into one by giving preference to definitions spanning multiple
columns. This can provide new information about the actual load and correlation
between predicates that are traditionally hard to discover for the DBA.

Index suggestion check
----------------------

Thanks to the [HypoPG](https://github.com/dalibo/hypoopg) extension, the
benefits of the suggested index creations can automatically be checked by
running the queries against  hypothetical indexes.  You can see instantly if the
suggested index is relevant and how much it'll improve the query.


Documentation
----------------------

* Complete user documentation available at http://powa.readthedocs.org/

Backward compatibility
------------------------------

* PoWA 2.0 and later is NOT COMPATIBLE with PostgreSQL 9.3. If you're using PoWA
  with PostgreSQL 9.3, you can either keep PoWA 1.2 or upgrade to PostgreSQL 9.4
  and switch to PoWA 2.0.
