What's new in PoWA 4.0.0
=========================

**April, 8, 2020**

New remote mode
---------------

The new remote mode is the biggest feature introduced in PoWA 4, though there
have been other improvements.

With this new mode you can now store the metrics from the various datasources
(pg_stat_statements, pg_stat_kcache and any other) on a different PostgreSQL
server.  You can therefore use PoWA without provisionning extra disk space on
your production instances, or spend any other resource for the data
collection as it's all done on a different server.  Thanks to this mode it's
also now possible to use PoWA with read-only physical replication standby
servers.  And finally with this new mode you can also store the PoWA metrics
from any number of PostgreSQL servers in a single place and access everything
using the same web interface.

A new dedicated daemon called powa-collector is provided to take retrieve the
various PoWA metrics from all the instances and store them on the wanted
server.

A lot of other enhancements
---------------------------

As for any other new PoWA versions, a lot of other things have been improved.

This versions adds compatibility with the PostgreSQL 13 and with the new
metrics added in pg_stat_kcache 2.1.0 and pg_qualstats 2.0.0.

The web interface has a new page to show all the remote servers for which PoWA
is storing data and inspect any of them.  It also adds new widgets for
pg_track_settings, showing any detected configuration changes or server
restarts as events on the varioius graphs.  Multiple other graphs have been
added and all the graphs get in-app metrics documentation, with optional link
to some documentation when needed.

Documentation
-------------

* Complete powa-archivist changelog available at
  https://github.com/powa-team/powa-archivist/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#400
* Complete powa-web changelog available at
  https://github.com/powa-team/powa-web/blob/master/CHANGELOG
* Complete user documentation available at https://powa.readthedocs.io/
